In our first tutorial, we will create classes for the controller and the bot character.
Let's get started. We create a new class. Click show all classes.
The bot character will be inherited from the base character. We call this class STUAICharacter.
And create an additional AI directory. Click create class.
The second class we need is the controller class. There is a special subclass
for artificial intelligence called AIController. We inherit from this class.
We name our controller class STUAIController and also place it in the AI ​​folder.
If you have problems with compilation, then in visual studio add a new directory in the build file.
We return to editor.
Let's create blueprint classes for the character and controller of our npc. Add a new folder to the root and call it AI.
Create a blueprint character class.
And the blueprint is the controller class.
First, let's set up the character class. By analogy with the character that is controlled by the
player, we need to copy all the elements and settings in the blueprint.
So I'll open the BaseCharacter blueprint asset and just transfer all the data to AICharacter.
Also in the details panel there is a button with an eye, in which there is an item - show only those properties that
have been changed in the blueprint. In our situation, this is quite convenient.
I transferred all the settings from the regular character to the AI ​​character.
On stage, replace the blueprint of the regular character with the blueprint AI character.
Also, in order for the AI ​​controller to spawn correctly, we need to check the character settings in the details panel,
in the pawn category we look that the property AutoPossessAI is either in
place in the world, or you can put place in the world or spawned,
and in the property AI controller we specify the created class us a controller. Compile. We launch.
Let's check that we can kill the NPC. Let's restart our game.
Let's filter the tree of level objects by the AI ​​text and see that the character class has spawned and the controller class has also spawned.
We have created all the necessary classes for the job. Let's animate our bot and make it move to some point.
We can drag the EmptyActor onto the scene. Let's move it somewhere on the edge of our floor.
This will be temporary logic, so we'll do it in blueprint.
Open up the blueprint AI controller class.
Call a function on BeginPlay called AIMoveTo.
This function moves the pawn owned by this controller to the destination point, or to another actor,
which can be specified in the Target Actor pin. Copy the coordinates of the EmptyActor to the destination pin.
Copy the x coordinate and y coordinate.
And the z coordinate is 10.
We start the game and nothing happens. To make the bot move, you need an additional entity
that needs to be added to the scene. On the left, we find an actor called NavMeshBoundsVolume.
Drag it onto the stage. This volume determines the space
in which the NPC will move. Let's increase the size of this box in the details panel.
In brush settings, set x - 10 thousand, y - 10 thousand too.
There is also a z coordinate. Our stage is flat. You can also add a second level: various
stairs and increase the z-coordinate of the given volume so that the bot can get to the second floors.
The green highlight of the navigation mesh is toggled on and off using the P key on your keyboard.
The navigation mesh is also affected by other meshes in the scene.
You can check this by dragging and dropping an object on our level. We launch the project. The bot ran. It moves
to a point on the edge of the floor and stops when it reaches it. The last thing in this tutorial.
I created a constructor in AICharacter and in this constructor set the settings that we
defined earlier in the blueprint: AutoPossesseAI. You can also press f12.
See what elements this enum has.
And also pointed out AIControllerClass. This is a base C ++ class, although we are redefining it to blueprint in the blueprint.
The constructor for AICharacter must also be used with a parameter,
because we need to call the constructor of the BaseCharter class, and we have replaced it
with a constructor with a parameter so that we can override the CharacterMovementComponent.